It is then again reactivating, reactivating of the teaching, of the old teaching of the five parts.
More condense level, condense level, and more as secret mantra level. This is again what is known.
Skilful means, Buddhist teaching generally all is best upon skilful means and compassion.
So by the compassion, again summarizing entirely the Heart Sutra teaching into these mantras.
And so that is now, what is this? The following mantra.
Mantra, therefore, now goes again to summarize of this teaching and practices more and that will
immediately benefit and help it to cleanse and purify
and then should we see this following. So this following mantra is the mantra of the Pandya Paramat
as, mantra of the Pandya Paramatas.
And again, mantra is in the Sanskrit word and it has two meanings, man and ataras.
Man is in the Sanskrit word, means mind. And ataras means protected.
So protector of the mind, that means protector. And what is protecting?
It's protecting from the negative emotions, wrongdoing of the mind.
Mind is a fundamental source to do anything. So this protecting from the negativity, activity, and
all habitivity and bring the mind toward its own origin and nature.
And then, therefore, it's called mantra. And this mantra is the great awareness mantra.
And this is also, that meaning is absolute mantras. It is not just a mantra, but it's one's own
awareness, one's own Pandya Paramata.
Nature is reflected in the form of this mantra or form of this syllabus.
So, also awareness means there is no ignorance. So this is the mantra of the verses. Man is not an
inner mantra.
It brings up our realization, understanding, wisdom, dispel, darkness of ignorance. Darkness of
ignorance.
Since this is the mantra of the awareness of the wisdom, then there is nothing more matter, better
matter than this.
This is the best mantra that will protect us from the wrongdoing of the mind, or it will protect us
from the emotional obscurations and the knowledge obscurations.
So, therefore, it is, nothing is higher and better matter than this.
And the mantra that equalize what is not equals, that means it will purify all the dualities.
Duality is the unequal. It makes a bump. But when you release the duality, then everything becomes
equal with ordinary natural states.
The ordinary natural state of exaggerating is at both the relative level and the absolute level.
So, this will bring that realization, unequal, that which is equal.
Because of that, this practice, if we continue practicing, even if we didn't reach that realization
, it will pacify all the sufferings.
And the mantra totally pacifies all the sufferings. So, it will purify all sufferings, all the
difficult troubles those will purify.
Because of this mantra, it is the mantra of the wisdom. This mantra is then called Pandya Paramata.
And that is the cause of the, it will clear away the cause of those sufferings and call suffering
itself.
And why it is? Because it is truth. It is an expression of the truth. It is exactly where it is.
Therefore, it is so powerful, so special, so forceful to clear away all the unnatural, think in
natural habit appearance.
And that is what the religious, this mantra should be seen as that.
And it should be known as to, I am sure, known as well.
And what is that Pandya Paramatra? Mantra is then Pandya Paramantra is uttered here or said here,
that is.
And that is the yata of gati, yati, para, gati, para, san, gati, body, source, that is source.
And now, this, so what is it?
But the other is, we translated this again, translated this, that the other is das, das.
I think that is what many times translated das.
Das, om is prosperity and peace, acupicius, glorious, all that.
And then gati is go.
And gati is go, very go, para san, very, very beautiful go.
And then bodhi, enlightenment, soha is astellish, astellish.
So that is the brief meaning of this.
Now, what means here, again, go, go, I mean in other words, go, go, go, very go, par go and very
fully go.
Where to go? Go to the body, go to the body.
That is really the basic meaning.
So now, to understand this is our, again, we looked in other world, what Buddha gives the teachings
,
the first teaching of the Buddha in Varanasu, four noble truth teachings.
And those are known as suffering truth, cause of suffering truth, part truth, and cessation truth.
So this is, it openly is saying the part truth and cessation truth, openly explaining or is, so
that means it is essence of that teachings.
It directly saying then suffering truth and cause of suffering truth.
So that means why is that?
That means where we are now, for example, where we are now, so where we, why we have to go now?
Why we have to go?
This prison moment, us in the suffering truth and cause of suffering truth, that's what we are.
We are staying.
In another world, we are suffering truth status, I call it.
Suffering truth is what?
Is this world, this samsara is suffering truth, according to the Buddha's teaching.
It is suffering truth.
And then what kind of suffering, the difficulty challenges we have?
All things that we can really name into ourselves, parts and the levels.
What do we have troubles? You think? All those are known as suffering, suffering truth.
Why is it called truth?
Truth, even though it's all illusions, but even though it's illusion, we are going through that
experiences.
It's not uncomfortable.
When we experience that, it's not comfortable.
It's true.
True is not just a making up, it's true uncomfortable.
Therefore, it's called suffering truth.
In another world, challenging truths, all difficult truths, and uneasy truths.
We can use all those words.
In samsara, we have that.
At the mental level, psychological level, physical level, we have that.
It's all uncomfortable, always something.
And then plus, what the teaching says, that you know this goal underneath troubles.
That whole difficulty troubles, all the challenges have summarized, three things summarize.
Those are known as all pervasive uncomfortables.
We will say uncomfortable. Then the second is changeable uncomfortable, uncomfortable challenges.
And then, third one is challenging upper challenges.
All in the teaching, also sometimes we use suffering upper sufferings.
Those are naturally phenomena occurring that we all have to go through, or we are.
Among that, the fourth is pervasive, uncomfortable challenge.
That in the teaching said, as long as we have the physical, as long as we have the duality mind,
we are tended to have challenges.
That is easy to erupt immediately, something to come up.
Because of that condition, the circumstances are hiding there,
but otherwise, maybe there is always a challenge that can come up.
Because of that, then changeable challenges come.
Changeable challenges come.
One after, maybe not having, now it's going good, everything, and suddenly something came up.
Come, all gradually come up, whatever it is.
It's called changeable challenges.
Then challenging upper challenges, because of that pervasive undercurrent in that situation,
then many times it happens one after another, repeatedly, one after another.
That means just very soon from each other, each other, that happens.
Those are all known as challenge, like suffering truths.
All this is difficult, trouble and challenge, one after another. So that is called samsara.
Samsara is full of challenges.
And then from this, we have to go.
From this situation, we should go.
And what is the cause of those again?
And of course, you all know.
The cause is known as then, the cause of suffering truth.
The cause of suffering truth, whatever we are going through, is not just coming by itself.
It has cause, it has conditions.
As we have been talking about the day, the day that everything started with the cause and condition
.
The combination ignited that situation.
And the cause, the principal cause and condition are negative emotions.
Negative emotions.
And then it is action.
Negative emotion, it is action.
It is a principal cause.
And those are negatives that started to work.
Again through the illness of mind.
Mind we went through in the teaching and in the new practice.
We all practiced in some degree of the zouki. We know mind is empty.
But even though mind is empty, yet all these things are propagated from mind.
And negative emotion is not outside.
It is all of our mental states.
And those are the ignorance, the attachment, the anger, and then doubt and all those things.
And self-report and self-breathing, all those started with kind of that boiling in our mind, mental
state.
When it is reflected and then in action, that is known as negative activities.
That negative activity is also known as in Buddhism karma.
That is karma.
So karmic, karmic and with that consequence.
And then continually maintain these troubles.
And that is the cause of suffering truth.
So now here in this teaching, what is teaching here?
What is teaching here?
Say from this samsara, from cause of suffering truth and from suffering truth go to the path.
Go to the path.
Go to the five paths.
That is what is really teaching this is.
So first in gati, for example, gati is accumulation path.
Second in gati is application path.
Para san gati is seeing path.
So not san gati.
And para san gati is meditation path.
Bodhi is normal starting path, an enlightened state.
So that is what really teaching is.
Teaching is negative.
And now we go here again.
So that is the general meaning.
And again the great master Verojana,
or the Kona teaching of the Kilesana in this.
These all others are really same.
So that is why I really go here.
It is all same because the absolute truth has no really difference
between bhayana and vedayana.
All that as we were said this.
So you be at your own.
[ Pause ]
And now here according to the vedayana teaching,
this is again teaching of the Verojana,
the great master Dax Vettel and Ed Vettel
and one of the nine hearted students of the European assembly
and the first order of the most,
one of the first order of the most of Tibet.
Tibet and fully ordered the most of Tibet.
And then the great Dax later in the world called Verojana,
Verojana Rakchita because Verojana told the ordination
from the great master Shanda Rakchita.
According to Vinaya tradition or the teaching,
the one who received ordination from that master
always give the last name as their part of names.
So Shanda Rakchita, Vosam Shanda Rakchita is the last name
and therefore Verojana Rakchita, Kawapati Rakchita
and Joro Yancey Rakchita.
All those 25 disciples, all those really open that you see.
So Rakchita, Rakchita.
So this is Verojana Rakchita.
He's one of the first monks in Tibet.
Verojana Rakchita says that in Buddhism that was concerned,
attributed to have the capability to keep up these vows,
vows and how that will be, if they can keep or not, Vinaya vows.
So for that reason, first they decided to test with seven men,
seven men or seven young men.
So they taught this way, Shanda Rakchita, and become the order in the master,
the principal master.
And then many other monks also invited from India
and gave the first ordination.
So Verojana is one of the first one and Verojana Rakchita.
Then later Verojana started under the guidance
of Shanda Rakchita and Gaurabhema, some of the Sanskrit language.
And then he was a genius.
And the teachings said also he was emanation of the Ananda.
Ananda, even though Swamiji said he is emanation of the Buddha Verojana.
Buddha Verojana.
But either way, he is one of the very brilliant and just a genius in that time.
And he, in the teachings, said he knows 360 languages, 360 languages.
And not just know those languages, but he knows the exact meaning
and vocabulary, exact as their own countries.
Brings the nose there.
So he is the Kudasrezo, great master, Vasram Dapini.
There is no vast network of welcome ever as of before and after like Verojana.
Verojana has such great knowledge.
He particularly honored that much, honored to him.
And then when he was grown up in the 80s, 80s, 80s, 20s, then Kudasrezo and Dapini
and Gurbama Sambo, Chantalak generally suggested that he should send this young Tibetan to India
because also they thought that they were like, they thought that Chantalak
to make the Buddha of his trusty, because the king won't have any kind of like doubt and hesitation
.
While Gurbama Sambo and Chantalak gave teaching, he is not authentic teaching of the Buddha.
Buddha to kind of correct that or to declare any those hesitations, what if they have or have,
and then Chantalak told that the same, Verojana in India.
India and Verojana stayed quite a while and then he able to meet the western body of the,
of the, of the Hidisana and Garabdho ji Erezilago teachings.
So then he came back.
So that Verojana become the first, also a royal teacher or root guru of the,
one of the royal teacher or root guru of the characters of dating, really that.
So, so this is, that's it.
And then he bought Dzogki teachings,
particularly Dzogki teachings of the mind section and the space section of the Dzogki teaching to
Tibet.
Tibet and therefore he is considering three great Dzogki masters of the, to be the Buddhism and the
Nyingma.
So Murpema Sambhava, Murmatra and Verojana, those things.
So that is what.
So as he received this teaching, from this teaching, from Chirisana,
and then he gave this teaching to Khay Chasson Dejis.
This is.
And now to do this, so that is just a green color again.
We have the, of the, of the.
And so this again, this mantra, explaining of these mantras.
Mantras, this is a mantra of the Pandya Paramata.
When you practice of this mantra, what is your object?
So it is explaining object of, of your focal point, focal point.
How to practice this?
What will bring the result of these practices?
Practices.
That is, that is explaining.
And the focal point of this practice of the Pandya Paramata Mantra,
and again say way, both each other, thinking of all living beings.
Living beings and to benefit, to remove their suffering, difficulty.
At the same time, according to the different levels of what is already explained,
it is seeing everything as a perfect status.
As like Sambukaya levels.
With that, with that meditation, seeing all is in task, task, lucidity.
Task, lucidity status.
Everything as like emptiness.
All forms of emptiness, that realization, task, lucidity status.
And join this, then this mantras.
When you join these mantras, then what it will bring the result.
It will bring the result quicker than any other method.
It will cook the brain.
That means it will bring cooked realization of the true natures.
And then, it's not just brain realization, that while also by this practice,
it will turn samsara into pure land or the naranas.
Naranas.
So therefore, this mantra is very, very powerful and spacious.
Spatials.
And also, this mantra is not, this realization and achievement
is not relying to the other techniques because it is all right with us.
Right with you.
That awareness is with us.
There is nothing higher than our own awareness, our own true awareness.
So this exploring, discovering our own true awareness.
And also, when you join this, what will be done?
You begin to see how rich in the scholars of the awareness contains.
At a coded zoki level, then also the spontaneous and etheric, all qualities.
That will shine out or that will bring out by these mantras.
When you recite this mantra, then also it will bring,
as it will bring all the richness of the awareness
and that will benefit to also something that is unequal, unequal benefits,
unequal benefit to all the sentient beings, to everyone, equal sentient beings.
And this is the nature of your own mind, our own mind.
We are exploring with discovery of this very nature of the, nature of one's own.
And then, it says again, this is mantra of the Konyapaka parameter.
Mantra also means essence too, essence.
What that means?
Essence of our own awareness, essence of our own true nature,
which is, cannot be separated by any ways, any ways.
So in another world, it's indestructible, indestructible,
unpredictable, the nature of the awareness will be reworked.
When you have that realization, you transcend that all the challenges
into great blessfulness or great peaceful status.
When you recite this mantra, can I recite this mantra without any focal point
or without any grasping, cleaning, relaxing with this?
So if you join that way, then you will see the benefit of this mantra.
Therefore, it is not untruth.
It is a truth you were witnessed by yourself.
You were witnessed by yourself.
And then, that mantra is explained by the great master.
No, our lock, the shorts, our lock, the hip.
Taddiata is mid, taddiata and I translated, das, das.
Here I said, I mean, taddiata is intubated.
Dattati, dattati.
So that is in the yata translated as das, t-h-u-s, das.
But here I said, das means both samsara and nirvana is same.
Das it is, means both samsara and nirvana are the same nature.
Nature, to bring up that realization and it says das it.
And that also means here, I said, it is that when it is same,
there is nothing to have to think, do this, do this.
But nirvana and samsara are also inseparably same.
And also, unchangeably is same, unchangeable same.
So that is the meaning of this das, t-h-u-s das.
Then here, this mantra starts of course.
Om, gati, gati, para, gati, para, sangati, bodhisu.
Om is a symbolized of the, when we don't have this realization perfectly,
Om symbolized as five poisons.
Five poisons are such as ignorance, many of you already know,
ignorance, attachment, anger, jealous, arrogance.
Those are the five poisons.
Five poisons.
And then, when you realize the nature of the rupa, that awareness,
when you realize it, this is then five dhyana buddhas.
Five dhyana buddhas or five male buddhas.
Buddhas, so that is what it is.
And at that level, also from Kiki, what they generally measured,
and I saw that also in some other texts.
Om, you even write Om, I mean a little bit, I can't talk a little bit,
that r, then o, and then this sankal.
So there is only three words.
But here we can imagine that Om should write,
like most Om should write, all those mantra Om's write,
like of course that r, narrow, and then same way in the Om,
that moon shape, moon shape, and then there called,
and underneath is r, r.
So that it makes five syllables, and I saw that many texts,
and here also mass, great mass.
When we turn over here, I was explaining that.
To symbolize that, so that Om has five parts, five parts, five parts.
So that's what this is.
So it is symbolized in samsara,
when you don't have the realization of that,
it is a five, symbolized, five forms.
But when you realize of this nature, this is then five dhyana buddhas.
Buddhas.
Buddha.
And...
So that is really, so we understand this.
And now, so the next one is ghati.
Ghati is that when you have the realization of the awareness of the Pandya Paramata,
when you realize it exactly, then what now, next one is ghati.
Ghati means, again I said, go.
Go beyond or go.
Go.
So what that means?
By the realization of this Pandya Paramata or the awareness,
you go to fulfill your own benefits.
Fulfillment.
In the Buddha's teaching,
occasionally you heard, or many of you,
fulfilling the two purposes, or dual purposes sometimes.
Fulfillment is one's own purposes,
and then fulfilling the benefit to all the beings.
Means, those are really two purposes.
One's own purpose, and that means,
in order to benefit to all beings, you have to be strong,
you have to be free from all the negative emotions,
all those hinders.
So then fully we are active and ready,
and we can reach and benefit to the other beings.
So therefore, first you should take care of yourself,
and then to the others.
That didn't mean we should not think of others.
We are taking care of one's own self in a way,
that thinking of to benefit to all beings,
and start with both each other, same thing.
But what it does, immediately,
when we do the practice of thinking of all living beings,
practice that immediately help to one's own self,
cleansing and purify, obscurations, that immediate effort.
So that aspect is known as fulfilling the one's own purpose.
So here, Gati, go first.
Go first, referring to fulfilling one's own purpose.
And the second Gati is fulfilling,
now you went to fulfill that,
or you go on to fulfill the benefit to all beings.
So the second Gati is fulfilling the benefit for all beings.
Paraṁ gatthi, tahuṁ turuṣi, jinnaramit.
And the second Paraṁ, the next third, the third one,
is a Paraṁ Gati,
now you fulfilled the ultimate of your own benefit,
therefore, you are went beyond of the expectations.
Beyond of the expectations.
So there is nothing to expect.
You reach the full insta, fully fulfilled.
And the next one is Paraṁ saṁ gati,
Paraṁ saṁ gati, that is also,
now you fulfilled to benefit to all the beings,
you really went to fulfill the benefit of all beings,
and therefore there is nothing more for them to go.
This is the highest thing, perfectly going, perfectly went.
You did, it's supreme, supreme is fully good.
And then, next, when you went that way, what it comes?
The great being benefited to all,
or just to benefit for all the same things,
means that moment that you have the tremendous support,
the full development of great compassion,
compassion that has no discriminations.
Bracing compassion to all the same things.
And for that reason, then you begin to emanate,
also next one, the Bodhi, this is explained on the Bodhi.
Bodhi is a Buddhahorn, and that is here,
I called it chilisana, or the master of Vedic explaining,
because you got great compassion of the without any focus,
to all living beings.
For that reason, then you also begin to emanate the many emanations,
many emanations, those are known as then sambogaya and nirmakayas, nirmakayas.
And those are then, those who are highly developed disciples,
or the audience, you appear as sambogaya and nirmakayas.
And then, as well as, those are then, the obstacle beings,
you appear as nirmakayas and nirmakayas.
And then also nirmakayas, the many divisions,
I think you, many of you know, many different emanations of nirmakayas.
So what is root and cause of that whole emanation is compassion.
Compassion is the principle cause of that emanation,
and then with, of course, wisdom is struggling with that.
And for that reason, then this therefore is called bodhi, bodhi.
And now, bodhi, soha, soha is what? It's a Sanskrit word.
It is established. Established.
And that is what head teaching said.
It's called the tandara or the jokin level.
It means, it's liberated.
Soha means liberated.
So that means, what, where are you liberated?
You're liberated only in a status, exactly as we belong.
You back, you ask, you re-establish it,
back to that our own nature, awakened state of the rupa.
And who liberated, who established that?
Nobody else established it.
You established it, or a rupa itself established it,
back to the rupa status, rupa status, status.
So that is really the meaning of this mantra of the panya parabola.
Panya parabola is that, according to the jokin level,
or according to the radio teaching of the jokin levels.